University: Bielefeld University, ARWU: 601-700, QS ranking: 801-1000
undergraduate course: 3 years
subjects:
	Business Management & Economics
	Computer Science & IT
	Engineering
	Humanities
	Natural Sciences & Mathematics
	Social Sciences
Students: 24000
Degree Types: Master of Arts, Master of Science, Bachelor of Arts
City: North Rhine- Westphalia (Nordrhein-Westfalen)State
	Inhabitants: 335000
Profile of University:
As a university internationally regarded for its top-level research and innovative teaching concepts, Bielefeld University makes a significant contribution to a progressive and participatory knowledge society. It is an attractive, family-friendly place to work and study and is characterised by an open communication culture, lived interdisciplinarity, diversity and freedom for personal development.

Bielefeld University was founded in 1969 with an explicit research assignment and a mission to provide high-quality research-oriented teaching. With around 24,500 students, the University currently encompasses 14 faculties. As a 'Volluniversität' (full university), it offers a differentiated range of disciplines in the humanities, natural sciences, technology as well as in medicine.

Education
It encompasses 13 faculties covering a broad spectrum of disciplines in the humanities, natural sciences, social sciences, and technology. Research and teaching are characterized by a highly networked interdisciplinary profile: A transparent course structure with great permeability between subjects, flexibility of study combinations, and elective elements allow students to create their individual profile that paves the way to an excellent career in new occupational and research fields.

Research
Five main research fields are committed to research and the promotion of young academics on a top international level within the framework of first-class interdisciplinary collaborative research projects, central academic institutes, and systematic individual funding. The university’s strong research performance is underlined in a host of ways by, for example, the Excellence Initiative (Cluster, Graduate School), Collaborative Research Centres (SFB), DFG Research Units, ERC grants, Heisenberg Professorships, and participation in the German Federal Ministry of Research and Education's ‘It’s owl’ technology network..

Career
Career Service: provides numerous services, such as seminars, trainings, meetings with employers, helping you to start your career.



Services:
Student services
International Office helps all international students with adjusting to the new environment and provides continuing support that enhances their learning. It offers assistance on arrival, with accomodation, diverse administrative issues and integration. A varied programme of leisure time activities is organized and a bicycle rental service is also available.
Brother-Sister programme is a personal tutoring programme for all foreign freshmen and participants of the German language courses, local students support people new to Bielefeld during their first semester.
PunktUm: Counselling and Training for International Students

Housing services
Welcome Center:

A pivotal service at the university for international researchers and their families provides information on a wide range of non-academic issues such as visa and residence requirements, health insurance, accommodation, language courses, family matters, as well as general information about Bielefeld University and the Bielefeld area.

Library services
Print jobs can be sent from every PC in the library, from your private laptop or USB flash drive.Printing is possible at any of the provided copy machines in the library. You can find them in the departmental libraries in C, D, T, U, V and in building X. The amounts are debited to your UniCard (Student ID card), Servicecard (Mensakarte) or Guest Card.

ICT services
In the university computing centre (Hochschulrechenzentrum-HRZ) terminals with internet access are available to the students. Every semester the HRZ offers introductory and training course. Apart from this, every faculty has its own computers, which are connected with the HRZ.


Student Life
Campus life
As the architectural expression of its interdisciplinarity, the unique university campus unites almost all faculties and services under one roof which creates a great atmosphere for interfaculty networking, cooperation and new friendships.

Bielefeld is a lively and diverse university city, with numerous parks and some little lakes here and there. The "Sparrenburg", a castle from the 13th century and the Teutoburger forest are great places for relaxing or hiking after lessons, the city center offers lots of shopping opportunities together with large number of bars, cafés, clubs, restaurants and seasonal cultural and international events in parks and plazas, all this at an easily accessible distance from campus.

Sports facilities
University Sports Service: offers more than 60 different kinds of sports on Campus - a service ranked among the Top5 worldwide in the International Student Barometer 2011.

Doing sports is free of charge for students and you can join all kinds of sports groups - football, basketball, lacrosse, tennis, various dancing styles, martial arts, swimming, ballet, fitness etc.If you prefer going to the gym, you can join the UNIFIT on campus. 

Student clubs
International Student Association
AIESEC
Enactus Bielefeld: Fresh!
Amnesty International
and many more.